# CONTRIBUTING

## When Submitting An Issue:

If you think there's a bug, please make sure it's really a bug in AVH Deploy.
As AVH Deploy sits on the (sometimes rough) edges between Capistrano, SSH, Git,
the network, Ruby, RVM, rbenv, chruby, Bundler, your Linux distribution,
countless shell configuration files on your end, and the server… there's a
good chance the problem lies somewhere else.

It's really important to include as much information as possible, versions of
everything involved, anything weird you might be doing that might be having
side effects, include as much as you can in a [GitHub
Gist](https://gist.github.com/) and link that from the issue, with tools such
as Gist, we can link to individual lines and help work out what is going wrong.

## When Requesting a Feature:

We can't make everyone happy all of the time, and we've been around the block
well enough to know when something doesn't work well, or when your proposed fix
might impact other things.

Please don't be offended if we say no, and don't be afraid to fight your
corner, try and avoid being one of the [poisonous
people](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q52kFL8zVoM)

## Submitting A Pull Request:

Pull requests are awesome, and if you conform to the guidelines below, we'll
merge them in as soon as possible.

 * Pull requests should be made from the `master` branch.
 * The code is MIT licenced, your code will fall under the same license if we
   merge it.
 * We can't merge it without a [good commit
   message](http://robots.thoughtbot.com/5-useful-tips-for-a-better-commit-message).
   If you do this right, Github will use the commit message as the body of your
   pull request, double win.
 * If you are referencing an improvement to an existing issue (if we have not
   yet merged it )
 * If you add a new feature, please make sure to document it.
 * Take care to squash your commit into one single commit with a good message,
   it saves us a lot of work in maintaining the CHANGELOG if we can generate
   it from the commit messages between the release tags!
 * Tests! It's tricky to test but do your best.

## Submitting a new tasks:

Besides the general rule stated above for a Pull Request, please also adhere
to the following guidelines:

  * If you create a new task specifically for a certain OS, append the OS at
    the end of the file name and namespace.
  * Filenames should be lowercase only and the namespace should be the same
    as the filename.
  * Filenames should have the suffix `.cap` otherwise they won't be included
    automatically by AVH Deploy